Docs 6711 write troubleshooting content pa (#37)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshoot-policy-enforcement-issues.adoc

= Troubleshooting Policy Enforcement Issues
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: service mesh, microservices, policy enforcement issues, troubleshooting

> Even though you might have applied policies to your services, the Mule adapter may not seem to be enforcing these policies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though you applied policies to your services, the Mule adapter might not seem to be enforcing these policies, responding with any of the following error messages:
```

Reviewer: I sort of like this intro better than the one we have been using.
Maybe next time change them all to be like this...which also allows us to leave the lettercasing in sentence-style caps.

Author: **Ok done!**

* <<service-port-not-named,Service port is not named>>
* <<policy-not-disassociated-after-deleting-bindings,Policy not disassociated after deleting bindings>>

> * <<binding-service-name-does-not-match-actual-service-name, Binding service name does not match actual service name>>

Reviewer: Does the extra space matter?
```suggestion
* <<binding-service-name-does-not-match-actual-service-name,Binding service name does not match actual service name>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* <<app-pod-does-not-have-envoy-sidecar,Application pod does not have an Envoy sidecar>>
* <<internal-error-with-500-error-code,Internal error with 500 error code>>

[[service-port-not-named]]

> == Service Port is Not Named

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Service Port Is Not Named
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> When you create a service, you must specify certain specifications, such as ports and selector. Each of these specifications have their own set of parameters that must be defined. When you specify a port to be assigned to service, you must also specify a name for that port, such as "http". When you fail to do so, an error is generated.

Reviewer: Reword to avoid "specify certain specifications." 
Are ports and selectors considered "specifications"?
And do "specifications" have parameters?

Reviewer: My best guess:
```suggestion
When you create a service, you must specify components such as ports and selectors. Each of these has its own set of parameters that must be defined. When you assign a port to a service, you must also specify a name for that port, such as "http," to avoid an error.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Causes

A name for the service port is not specified.

> === Diagnose

Reviewer: The more I think about it, the more I dislike this heading. If we state a cause, then we have already diagnosed the problem, so Cause and Diagnose are mostly redundant.
I still opt for Issue (what the user sees, without any explanation: in this case, the issue is that you receive the error `Service port is not named`; the cause is coding such as in the example; and the solution is to fix that code by naming the port.
I think this current approach is wordy and redundant. But this is not something to be solved for this release.

Author: Ok! Thanks!

> To diagnose this issue, verify the definition of the service that exposes the application:

Reviewer: "verify the definition of the service that exposes the application" sounds confusing. Are there simpler ways to describe this, like "review the service coding"?

Author: No, I think this is fine. I get it!

+

> `$ kubectl -n <namespace> get services -o yaml`.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY remove periods that follow syntax examples.
```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n <namespace> get services -o yaml`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
For example, the following service does not have a named port:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: v1
  kind: Service
  metadata:
    creationTimestamp: "2019-10-09T19:08:28Z"
    name: hello-kubernetes
    namespace: default
    resourceVersion: "7075"
    selfLink: /api/v1/namespaces/default/services/hello-kubernetes
    uid: 2d0719a5-eac8-11e9-93c9-06b247319cf6
  spec:
    clusterIP: 172.20.177.73
    externalTrafficPolicy: Cluster
    ports:
    - nodePort: 32231
      port: 80
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 8080
    selector:
      app: hello-kubernetes
    sessionAffinity: None
    type: LoadBalancer
----

=== Solution

> 

Reviewer: The Istio platform?

Author: I think Istio is fine.

> Isito requires every xref:https://istio.io/docs/ops/deployment/requirements/[port to be named]. To resolve this error, recreate the service with a named port as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY search for "recreate" and hyphenate it, because without the hyphen, this word has another meaning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Isito platform requires every xref:https://istio.io/docs/ops/deployment/requirements/[port to be named]. To resolve this error, re-create the service with a named port:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,text,linenums]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-kubernetes
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
  - port: 80
    name: http
    targetPort: 8080
  selector:
    app: hello-kubernetes
----

[[policy-not-disassociated-after-deleting-bindings]]
== Policy Not Disassociated after Deleting Bindings

> After you delete the bindings, the policies applied to the service may not be successfully removed.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY search for "may" and change it to "might" or "can," unless specifically referring to permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you delete the bindings, the policies applied to the service might not be successfully removed.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Causes

When a binding was deleted, an associated traffic rule was not deleted. Because of this issue, traffic is still being sent to the Mule adapter.

=== Diagnose

To diagnose this issue, verify that the service rules have been deleted:
+

> `$ kubectl get rules -l serviceName=<service name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl get rules -l serviceName=<service name>`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
If you determine that the rules are still applied, manually delete those rules.

=== Solution

> To delete the incorrect rules applied to the service, run the following command:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY reword:
```suggestion
Delete the incorrect rules applied to the service:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl delete rules -l serviceName=<service name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl delete rules -l serviceName=<service name>`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> If the rules are successfully deleted, a confirmation message is displayed:

Reviewer: Suggest omitting step results altogether. GLOBAL.
```suggestion
A confirmation message is displayed:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> //need the text for the screenshot

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Yes, need info.

[[binding-service-name-does-not-match-actual-service-name]]
== Binding Service Name Does Not Match Actual Service Name

> When you create the binding, you must provide a service name. If the service name provided with the binding command does not match the actual service name, an error occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create the binding, you must provide a service name. If the service name provided does not match the actual service name, an error occurs.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Causes

> Binding was created pointing to an non-existent service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Binding was created pointing to a nonexistent service.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Diagnose

To diagnose this issue:

> . Review the service bindings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Review the service bindings:
```

Author: Kept as a step.

> . Review the service bindings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Review the service bindings using either of the following two commands:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ ./service-mesh api binding list`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `$ ./service-mesh api binding list`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> Or

Reviewer: OMIT
```suggestion
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ ./service-mesh adapter binding list` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `$ ./service-mesh adapter binding list` 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Compare the service with the bindings:
+

> `$ kubectl -n <namespace> get services`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n <namespace> get services`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
//add text of the screenshot here

> In the above example, service names must be, for example `customer-service`, and NOT `customers.nto-payment.svc.cluster.nto-cluster`.

Reviewer: MISSING and so subsequent text makes no sense.

Author: Yes, need info.

=== Solution

> To resolve this issue, delete the existing bindings and recreate them to point to the actual services, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the existing bindings and re-create them to point to the actual services:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> //add text of the screenshot here

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Yes, need more info.

[[app-pod-does-not-have-envoy-sidecar]]
== Application Pod Does Not Have an Envoy Sidecar

Policies are not enforced due to an Envoy error in the application pod.

== Causes

Applications were not restarted in the namespace that was marked for injecting Envoy sidecar for every pod.

=== Diagnose

To diagnose this issue, verify that the sidecar has an envoy proxy associated to it:
+

> `$ kubectl -n <namespace> describe pod <pod_name> | grep -q istio-proxy: && echo INJECTED`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n <namespace> describe pod <pod_name> | grep -q istio-proxy: && echo INJECTED`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> If the terminal does not display the status as “Injected”, you must restart the pods.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the terminal does not display the status as `Injected`, you must restart the pods.  
```
Solution, not diagnosis. Repetitive.

Author: Fixed! Thanks!

=== Solution

To resolve this issue, restart the pods: 
+

> `$ kubectl  -n <namespace> delete pods <pod_name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl  -n <namespace> delete pods <pod_name>`
```

Author: Ok! Done!

[[internal-error-with-500-error-code]]
== Internal Error with 500 Error Code

> The applications managed by Anypoint Service Mesh generates a 500 error code with the following error description: `INTERNAL:grpcmule-nto-payment.handler.service-mesh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The applications managed by Anypoint Service Mesh generate a 500 error code with the following error description: `INTERNAL:grpcmule-nto-payment.handler.service-mesh`.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Causes

> This error occurs because the license may have expired and as a result, the adapter restarted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error occurs if the license expires and, as a result, the adapter restarts.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Diagnose

To diagnose this issue:

> . Execute the following command to display the adapter pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Display the adapter pod:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl get pods -n service-mesh`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Retrieve the adapter logs:
+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh logs $(kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace> -oname) -c mule`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh logs $(kubectl -n service-mesh get pod -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace> -oname) -c mule`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> If the license has expired, an error similar to the following text is displayed on your Command prompt:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the license has expired, an error similar to the following is displayed:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> //add text here for the screenshot.

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Yes, need info.

=== Solution

To resolve this issue: 

> . Replace the licence with a valid one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Replace the existing licence with a valid one:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl create secret generic -n service-mesh --dry-run service-mesh-incluster-broker-impl-license --from-file=license=<license_path> -oyaml | kubectl apply -n service-mesh -f -`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl create secret generic -n service-mesh --dry-run service-mesh-incluster-broker-impl-license --from-file=license=<license_path> -oyaml | kubectl apply -n service-mesh -f -`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Redeploy the adapter:
+

> `$ kubectl -n service-mesh patch $(kubectl -n service-mesh get deploy -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace> -oname) --type=json -p="[{\"op\": \"replace\", \"path\": \"/spec/template/metadata/annotations/kubectl.kubernetes.io~1restartedAt\",\"value\":\"$(date -u +%FT%TZ)\"}]"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n service-mesh patch $(kubectl -n service-mesh get deploy -l namespace=<replace_with_namespace> -oname) --type=json -p="[{\"op\": \"replace\", \"path\": \"/spec/template/metadata/annotations/kubectl.kubernetes.io~1restartedAt\",\"value\":\"$(date -u +%FT%TZ)\"}]"`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
